# Fiction

A general repo for short fiction.

The copyright licence may vary by file (especially as I intend to use this repo to add fiction in shared settings which may have their own licences). If I forget to add an explicit copyright notice, assume the legal default of copyright laws — i.e. that you can't do anything unless you get written permission from me — and also message me to let me know I forgot to add it.

* [Death Star](Death%20Star/Death%20Star.md): Actually written by a real human. An alternative timeline in the [Deathworlders](https://deathworlders.com) series, set immediately after the Hunters make Alpha Centauri explode.
* [Homo Capara](Homo%20Capra/Homo_Capra.html): An alternative reality where there is a goat-like human subspecies, done in the style of a Wikipedia article. Mostly generated by AI, minimal editing by me for formatting, repeated promting and plenty of cherry picking to make sure it keeps to the fictional reality and doesn't start veering into "this hypothetical creature" or "look what nonsense ye olde people used to belive in"
* [The Silent Anthem](The%20Silent%20Anthem/The%20Silent%20Anthem.md): An r/HFY style story, created by `gpt-4-1106-preview‎` as an experiment in using [my in-development front-end for any model of my choice](https://github.com/BenWheatley/YetAnotherChatUI), with only minimal editing. I'm surprised how well this turned out from such a short prompt, especially in comparison to my experience with *Homo Capara*.
* [Iron in the Blood](Iron%20in%20the%20Blood/teaser.md): An r/HFY style story, created by 4o, with an illustration. I like the writing, but the illustration… is the usual GenAI dichotomy of technically well done but with very strange composition (why are the generic space marines all facing different directions, why is nobody shooting?)
